<main class="post">
<article>

# What I'm doing now

<em class="date">This is a [Now page](https://nownownow.com/about). This page can also always be found at the permanent URL in the [Now page directory](https://nownownow.com/p/ZMe5).

Updated January 27, 2025, from my home in Salt Lake City.</em>

## Work

I'm currently working on a project called [Mindscape Collective](https://mindscapecollective.org), aiming to be the world's largest database of research on psychedelics, meditation, dreaming, and consciousness exploration. It will be coming with community forums, event and resource directories, and more. Shooting for an alpha launch by the end of February.

For my day job, I work as a **_Director of Engineering at [ezCater](https://ezcater.com)_**

## Self

I taking a class called Diversity, Culture and Social Justice in Psychedelics with the Chacruna Institute.

I'm applying to a couple Masters programs in Psychedelics and Consciousness Studies.

I attended the Psychedelics in the Beehive conference in Salt Lake City, and will be going to a number of other similar ones in 2025.

As one can see, I've been directing a lot of focus to consciousness exploration and psychedelics.

I've also been taking some time to focus on health, both physical and mental.

Did some travel too! Europe for fun and family, Boston for work, and NYC for friends. Asia coming soon!

## Reading

I've read lots of books in the last few months, mostly on Psychedelics and Anarchism, but also other stuff sometimes.
A non-comprehesive list:

- The Food of the Gods by Terrance McKenna
- The Writings of Emma Goldman
- The Psychedelic Explorer's Guide by James Fadiman
- The Psychedelic Experience by Timothy Leary, Ralph Metzner, Richard Alpert
- On Anarchism by Nohm Chomsky
- Anarchism, A Very Short Introduction by Colin Ward
- Psychedelika, Reisen an die Grenzen des Bewusstseins von Matthias Gross
- The Four Agreements by Don Miguel Ruiz
- Million Dollar Weekend by Noah Kagan and Tah Raz
- ...and I just started The Long Way to a Small, Angry Planet by Becky Chambers

## This website

This website has existed in essentially it's current form for over a decade. The current set up is still working very well, and it's tough to justify a change. So I wont!

</article>
</main>

